Okay so, now
that we know what logical
and relational operators are,
we can introduce conditions
and branching.
So you have,
you have if statements.
This syntax is the following.
So basically we type
if
and then you open a
paranthesis.
You write out a
condition.
condition
and depending on how,
depending on what
that condition is.
It can be an entire expression
which needs to be
evaluated.
It can simply be
a number like 0 or 1.
It can be true or false,
whatever.
Based upon the evaluation
of that condition,
you have something
that happens.
We have like
code
goes
here
So if the condition
is true,
this code will be
executed.
Now of course
you
can create like else
and else if, etc.
You can create multiple
conditions depending
on what happens.
But I will show you that
in a moment.
For the time being,
I want to go with something else
first with simpler things.
So we'll need
int x
We will assign it a value of
and we shall
redefine our condition here.
We shall state that
x is
>
Now
I supposed you can see
it better like this.
No big deal.
I'm trying to find
an optimal way
to write the code not
for my own convenience
but so that when you are
looking at it,
you can see it in a
very clear way.
Anyway so,
code goes here,
okay.
Let's play some codes.
So this will be executed
if x is greater than 6.
Let's type in
std::
cout
X
is
greater
than 6
And
I don't know.
std::
endl
Let's play it out
like that.
So if x is greater
than 6,
this will be printed out
onto the screen.
Here, you can even
convince yourselves
with that.
You see,
X is greater than 6.
Change this to 1.
Let's go ahead
and run.
Oops, nothing happens
because x is not
greater than 6.
Okay, let's change it
back it then.
Down below we can
have
another thing.
Another way of
putting
another
if statement.
Let's just
recycle this.
And we can simply
state
if 10
type in, your 10
is also true.
Okay obviously
this is true.
Why?
Well, as I said
0 is false, anything above
0 is true.
Is evaluated as true.
Therefore,
this will be the same as me
writing true here.
Or any sort of a condition
being evaluated to true,
this will be printed
out onto the screen, so.
10 is also true,
while yes.
Who knew?
However,
there's a,
here's a
not going to call a
trick question but
if - 4
Let's put it like this.
Let's recycle.
Recycling is good for the
environment.
So 10
- 4
and
let's...
Shall we say that
this is false?
Shall I change it
right here to false?
Or will it stay - 4
is also true?
So what do you think?
In your professional
opinion
do you think that - 4
will be evaluated as true?
Or will it be evaluated
as false?
Think about it.
It's actually a little bit
counter intuitive but
if you build and run it,
you will see it,
- 4 is also true.
So,
-4 actually evaluates
to true.
I know it's a little
bit weird but
no big deal.
Okay so, you got if
1.5
And let's see what happens here.
More recycling.
1.5
Do you think that
1.5 will also be true?
So it's.
1.5
Well,
I'm going to have
to rename this.
Everything
not
zero is
true.
And that should answer
this one and all the
future questions
in regard to what sort
of numbers are
evaluated as true. And what
numbers are
evaluated
as false.
So everything not zero
is true. Be it a - b, .b
a positive number, it's really
not that important.
So if I type in
is greater than
What do you think
this will be?
Is 10 greater than 5?
Yes it is, so.
True.
Let me just scroll down
my notes a little bit.
However, you see,
this evaluates to true
and okay
something happens here.
And this evaluates to true.
And something happens here
and so on and so forth.
If I placed a zero here,
nothing would happen.
The code would not,
would not get executed.
Here in fact let me,
let me just
be thorough and explain
that
and demonstrate that real quick.
Pointless
text that
will
never
be
printed
out.
I just run it.
You see,
x is greater than 6.
10 is also true.
- 4 is also true.
Everything
not zero is true.
And
true.
Ah right,
10 > 5
And if zero, you see,
Pointless text that will
never be
printed out.
Because
this condition will not
change. It will remain zero.
It's not a variable,
it's a constant
and we have written
a number here.
So, it evaluates the false
and nothing happens there.
But now, we would like
to...
Now, we would like to
have a way
of
actually
doing something
if the condition
is not true.
So if it's true,
do one thing.
If it's not true,
do another thing.
That's the idea so I'm just
looking for the code to recycle.
Yup, let's go ahead
and copy this one.
So x is greater than 10.
X is greater than
10.
But in case it is not,
I would like to have an
else statement.
Actually this is not
in case it is not else.
else if
And then a condition
would be...
and then to specify a
specific condition where
x is not greater than 10
would be
more thorough way
of doing this.
But if you write else
at the end, that means
as long as this condition
is not true,
else will be executed
no matter what.
So, std
no matter what,
but you had the idea.
So if its effect is
for example
= 10 or effects is lesser
than 10, else will be executed.
But I will show you the
examples with else if as well.
So no worries there.
I don't know,
cout.
Well, might as well
actually write it.
x is
x
is not
greater
std
New Entry 222
::
endl
So
This is going to
go ahead
and happen
in case x is
not greater than 10.
It can be equal or
it can be less than.
But you can
you can create this, so.
You can cover multiple
conditions.
in this fashion.
However, let's take a look at
something
and I'd like you to tell me
there is a
if there is a mistake here. If this is
possible.
Just take a look at it
think about it and
then come to a conclusion and then
I'll give you the answer.
Pause the video if you must.
Ok, so
I'm just goign to go ahead and
use the same example here
Then want to write
a different example for each
one of this
because it's fairly similar
and if I write here
something randomly,
int y
is equals to
and
then I just
input this below.
So, this is not going to work.
If I compile
Oops!
Now it's reporting an error
immediately.
If I just
comment this out,
and If I run it,
Yup, it's fine.
It's going to run
without any problems.
So, you can't really place
anything in between these.
You must keep them clear, one after
the other.
no other way.
you cannot just insert
random things in between them.
So, if we have only one statement,
we can even ommit
these curly brackets.
So, basically
for all these initial examples,
the curly
brackets were completely unnecessary.
if I type in,
x
is
greater than
I can type in immediately std
cout
ok.
x > 2
std
::
endl there we go. That's it.
But if you have one more line,
that needs to fall under
the if, or else statements,
you will need the curly braces.
If there is only one line,
you do not require them.
This is valid for both else and
for if. You see,
I can actually remove them here.
and here.
and I can run, build and compile.
You see, it runs.
It's all good.
If there is one.
But if there is more than one,
it might compile again. It probably
will compile
but that something will not be
taken into consideration the way
you want it to be taken
into consideration. Depending on how
it is written. So it might compile or
For example,
If I have
this line of code,
and If I place it here,
and even if I move it like this,
This is going to build and compile
without any problems.
But
this will not fall under it.
And if you saw here, if I put
something in between, if and else
we're going to have problems.
So, hopefully
that part is clear to an extent.
But
you know, in case it is not,
you're always more than
welcome to
ask questions.
Now. let's go ahead and do something
different.
Let's delete all of this
We're not going to need it.
and even this.
We shall type in int age
we will leave it uninitialized
we will leave that to the user.
cout
Enter
personal
enter person's
age.
Fantastic!
std ::
cin
age
we're going to get some input
from the keyboard
and
now,
I would like to
give different outputs
based on the age of
the person.
So, the age of the person you know,
it can be, I don't know,
if you can have
three year old, you can have an
18 year old.
You can have a 13 year old person,
you can have a 30 year old person, you
can have a 50 year old person.
Etc. so you will have a wide variety
of these conditions.
and if and else are simply
not enough, you need more than that.
So, if you type in if,
age is
>= 18
Let's say that this is considered an
adult person,
I mean legally,
it is.
cout
and
I can say:
Person is an
adult.
Unfortunately, you need to be
21 in the US to
be legally buy alcohol.
However, this is so untrue of my own
country, where you can be
I think 16 or 18, something like that
I'm not sure. it's 18, I'm pretty sure.
std
::
endl
So, that's one
but we, you know,
but we cannot just place else and
for every other
every other number that somebody
would enter for somebody's age
I mean that would be,
that would not be very
precise.
So, instead we will use else, if
We'll type in else if
and now we will issue another
condition.
So age
if its' greater than
So, the first condition
is false, that his age is less than
18.
So,
you see, if the person is like 15, or
16 or something like that,
and is less than 18, it's not
equal to 18,
it will jump
it will jump into this condition
here and
then
this code,
it will check whether the age is
greater than
13.
And we shall type in std.
cout,
cout
if Person is a teenager,
Ok,
so hopefully I spelled that right.
If I didn't, forgive me.
::endl
;
and now we can practically give
an infinite amount of
conditions down below.
Type in else if
age is
greater than
So, yeah,
if age is greater than 3,
so, if this condition is false, and
if this condition is false,
then go ahead and jump into
this condition here.
And as I said, it can
can have quite a lot of them
std::
pretty much as you want
I'm not aware of any limits
there. There is probably a limit
somewhere.
Person is a
kid
ok,
std::
endl;
;
and down below we will just type
in else,
in case it's any other number that
doesn't fit in this range at all.
I can just go ahead and type in
std
::
cout
well, what do you think
is the age of a person
who's age is not greater or equal
to 18?
It is not greater than 13,
it is not greater than 3,
well,
I'll give you one hint,
it's a
BABY
Joyous news for some, sad for others,
depends, how you look at it.
std::
endl
So, there you go.
This is how you can split it out and
branch it to multiple conditions.
You can have
else
if whatever and else if
for whatever again then else
at the end to cover
anything that you might have
missed some general
case what will happen.
Anyway,
I got to bid you farewell here
and we will continue on the
follow up tutorial.